Web browsing and e-mail are the top ways computers can get infected with malware,
information is stolen, and data gets breached.
Think about the number of e-mail you receive,
and the number of websites you go to daily.
If one one-hundredth of one percent is potentially malicious,
there's a good chance your computer can be infected with malware.
In this lesson, you'll understand
basic protection techniques for e-mail and other communication methods.
I'll start by giving you ways to protect your e-mail.
First, you want to have an inventory of e-mail accounts.
Like we have an inventory of software and hardware,
we need one for the e-mail accounts too.
For business, this means confirming all
of your employees e-mail accounts are still valid.
I've known organizations that allow people to keep their e-mail even after they
terminate to help clean up accounts in case a client still contacts them.
The problem is that they'll forget they're
active and could be used to spoof malicious e-mail.
Second, you should know if your e-mail information has been breached.
The website haveibeenpwned.com provides this information.
You'll get to test it as part of the exercise.
Third, make sure you use a standard format for your e-mail addresses.
For example, first initial,
last name at company.com.
Some use the full first name or have a period.
So why is it important to have a standard format for e-mail?
Well, because if you have multiple formats,
it could be easier for a malicious hacker to spoof your email and someone not notice.
You should also do this for your personal e-mail too.
Another step that protects both your e-mail and your website domain is to
make sure your provider uses the e-mail authentication protocols,
SPF, DKIM, and DMARC,
I'll explain these in a second.
These make it harder for scammers to impersonate
your domain and send phishing e-mails that look like they're from you.
Sender Policy Framework, SPF,
tells external receiving e-mail servers that your organizations
e-mail servers are proved to send e-mails from your business' domain name.
Domain Keys Identified Mail or DKIM,
adds a digital signature.
It's like a stamp to your outgoing e-mail,
so that external e-mail servers can confirm that your e-mail is from your domain.
Domain-based Message Authentication Reporting and Conformance,
or DMARC, verifies the address the server uses matches the from address.
It also tells external e-mail servers what to
do with potentially suspicious e-mail from your domain.
When you send an e-mail from your organization using these security protocols,
the receiving servers can confirm that you sent that email and it's not an impostor.
If the e-mail is not validated,
the receiving servers can send an alert or block the e-mail.
We all love web browsing,
but how do you know where you're going on the Internet is safe?
How can you reduce the chance you'll get breached when your web browsing?
There are a few simple steps for web browser safety.
First, keep whatever browser you're using, whether it's Chrome,
Firefox, Brave, Edge, whatever browser,
keep it up to date.
I'll explain how to do this in another session.
Second, make sure that all the websites are using HTTPS,
which is the secure version of HTTP,
that uses a protocol known as TLS, Transport Layer Security.
This is the padlock you see on the browser URL address bar.
It does two things for a security.
It encrypts the transmissions,
meaning it scrambles what you send and receive,
so no one in the middle can see it.
Two, it provides a digital certificate,
verifying the website you're on actually belongs to that organization.
Third step is to use web browser security settings,
which includes pop-up blockers and managing your cookies.
I'll demonstrate what this means next.
All of these are simple and low-cost steps to protect your e-mail,
web browsing, and other communications.